check it out this is the deepest and
most unexplored part of our planet
it's so deep that if you stick everest
in it its peak will still be underwater
this is the mariana trench it's located
in the western pacific ocean
and its maximum gnome depth is 36 000
feet
and this is you an average person who
burns with interest to understand what
is at the bottom
you're tired of watching documentaries
about the mariana trench
so you decide to check it out yourself
but you have neither a special suit nor
a submarine
you only have an air tank and a brick
would you tied your leg
take a deep breath and dive in
five feet under water you don't feel
anything unusual
this is the depth you might jump into a
pool or swim at the beach to see exotic
fish
five feet doesn't cause any
inconvenience and you feel
quite comfortable but the brick pulls
you deeper
and soon you find yourself at a depth of
32 feet
here you begin to feel the main problem
of diving so deep
and no it's not hungry sharks looking in
your direction
is that cracking no not really the main
threat is pressure
on the water surface you felt one
atmosphere of pressure
at a depth of 32 feet this pressure is
double
now don't worry you're safe for now but
you may already feel discomfort in the
eardrums
this is because the pressure causes the
air volume in your body to compress
you'll feel this in your ears sinuses
and lungs
but these air pockets in your body are
flexible enough
to withstand even more specific depth
you
continue to descend
65 feet underwater it's already quite
dark here
and the discomfort from the pressure
increases
ah if you're not a trained diver you
begin to feel the pain in your ears
now your lungs are reduced in volume by
three times
if the air sacs in your lungs collapse
air bubbles will get into your blood
and you may suffer an embolism or stroke
you've reached 100 feet this is the
maximum depth
divers go for recreational purposes you
need to be a well-trained and
experienced diver
[Music]
like me to cope with the pressures three
times higher than usual
in addition to this you begin to feel a
new symptom
nitrogen narcosis the air in your body
is made up of 78
nitrogen and 21 oxygen at higher
pressure
nitrogen begins to have a toxic effect
on your body
you feel a slight dizziness tunnel
vision memory
impairment and unexplained cheerfulness
and excitement
narcosis can cause visual and auditory
hallucinations
and make the diver do strange things for
example
dancing yes it might be the most
peculiar dance
in the world but narcosis can cause
worse consequences
the diver may think he can breathe
without equipment and
inhale water to avoid this divers use
gas mixtures with higher oxygen and
lower nitrogen
content to reach greater depths
you're still committed to the dive and
find yourself at a depth of 196 feet
here even regular oxygen becomes toxic
that's because you're consuming it at
seven
times the pressure of what you're used
to
oxygen intoxication can cause seizures
if there are no professional divers
nearby to help you may be in
big trouble to avoid such
intoxications helium is included in
diving gas mixtures
but it's not to make your voice funny
theoretically with helium in the tank
a diver can reach a depth of 984
feet hey you've reached 702 feet
this is the world record for free diving
herbert niche was able to achieve this
depth without special equipment in a
single breath
yeah i know it sounds strange but it was
easier for him to reach this depth over
divers
because he didn't use gas mixtures in an
air tank
and he didn't face narcosis for his
achievements
he received the title of the deepest man
on earth
in 2012 he reached a depth of 831 feet
but was severely injured in the process
at 831 feet you should look around
you may encounter a submarine because
they travel at this depth
but we've reached your limit another
couple of meters and your dive will end
badly but we know people can withstand a
lot more pressure
many experiments have been conducted to
find the limit of a human's dive
using special chambers that simulate
deep diving conditions
theoretically a person can withstand a
depth of sixteen hundred
forty feet but it would take a long time
to reach the surface from such a depth
due to the need for decompression
you see during diving nitrogen helium
and other gases
accumulate in your body tissues and
blood under high pressure
it takes time for these gases to
naturally leave your body through your
lungs
if you reach the surface too quickly
these gases will form into bubbles
destroy blood vessels and block blood
flow
so divers must make stops on the way to
the surface
to just hang out there and simply
breathe away the nitrogen
better bring a book sometimes it's
necessary to spend a whole month
in a special decompression chamber to
avoid traumatic consequences
for safe dives at great depths you need
special equipment
an atmospheric diving suit is used for
long deep water dives
up to 2296 feet it's like a mini
submarine which a person can wear
there's no need to worry about
decompression sickness or nitrogen
narcosis
because the pressure in the suit will
equal one atmosphere
at all depths plus you don't even need
to be an experienced diver to use this
suit
but it may cause claustrophobia
alright so what if you want to go deeper
for this
you will need a submarine the triton
6600-2
is a private submarine that can reach
6600 feet
the only disadvantage of this submarine
is its price
5.5 million dollars but let's assume
that you have that money
and you deploy your triton 6600 slash 2.
[Music]
can i go along great at its maximum
depth
have you reached your destination
actually i'm afraid not
you have to overcome a depth six times
deeper than that
unfortunately we can only reach the
bottom of the mariana trench
using drones so the human body can
withstand enormous pressures
this is because our body is made up of
70 water
how deep can a person actually go before
the pressure harms them
for a person this depth is 22 miles
our bones break at 24 600 pounds per
square inch
this means that the depth at which our
skeleton will be crushed
is about 22 miles yeah i think your
eyeballs will pop well before that
but living organisms exist below this
crush depth
the mariana snail fish lives at a depth
of about 26 000 feet
their bodies are adapted to withstand
incredibly high pressure
they chose this habitat because there
are few predators
and they feel safe they can reach a
length of 11 inches
and weigh less than half a pound their
diet is made up of tiny crustaceans
which crawl on the ocean floor and have
lots of frustrations
oh that rhymes
[Music]
let's go even deeper we're close to the
bottom of the mariana trench
these are cold waters where the sun's
rays have never reached
but there is also life in this darkness
we just need to look very closely
bacteria and yeast live here this
discovery surprised scientists
because it was thought no living
organism could survive such conditions
these microorganisms probably feed on
particles of animal waste and dust that
have fallen to the bottom
this discovery opened up new
opportunities for scientists
and motivated them to explore the depths
of the oceans
now let's return to the surface wow what
a journey
after such an experience you certainly
don't want to dive again without
preparation
so to start out practice holding your
breath underwater in the bathtub
and watch out for cracking